**CS 225 Final Project Proposal**


**Leading Question** - We’ve played pokemon for our entire childhood so we decided that it would be a fun idea to use pokemon as our dataset for this project. We believe that the pokemon community should have a convenient way of searching through the different pokemon from all the generations from various categories like height, weight, type, Pokedex number, etc. From this dataset, we can definitely see if there are any correlations between the different categories of pokemon. By default pokemon within the Pokedex and other websites organize pokemon by their pokemon number. We will attempt to diversify and allow these pokemon to be organized by different standards like their weight and height etc. This can be useful in a variety of different ways. For example, this could help us choose a fire-type pokemon to play within pokemon soul silver.

**Dataset Acquisition and Processing** -  We will download our pokemon data set as a .csv file from this link (https://www.kaggle.com/mariotormo/complete-pokemon-dataset-updated-090420). We will then put this file inside our Github repository. The data is made up of over a thousand pokemon that come from different generations with many different categories, including name, type, classification, height, capture rate, etc. We will store all of this data in a graph that categorizes the pokemon based on their type and capture rates. The vertices of the graph will correspond to all of the different pokemon in the dataset, which will also include their Pokedex number. When two pokemon have the same type and approximately the same catch rate, they will be connected by an edge. If there are any pokemon with insufficient data, we will either remove them from the dataset or create their own component that is not connected to the rest of the graph. 

**Graph Algorithms** -  For our final project we plan to use the Iterative deepening depth-first search and the Force-directed graph drawing algorithms. As well as the BFS (Breadth-First Search) traversal in order to organize and sort the dataset by the pokemon’s typings, capture rate, and such. We will use these algorithms to help store and then find the pokemon’s trait that we want to organize by. We also will use the Force-directed graph to help display the dataset by the trait we want it to be organized by. We plan to have these algorithms intake a dataset of pokemon that contains several traits and a certain trait we are looking for, then it should output a graph or list of the pokemon with the wanted trait we want to search for. We are planning to have a target big O of n, or better, we plan to organize the pokemon in a manner to avoid searching through the whole list if possible. We will want to graph all the pokemon into multiple groups that can be seen in the graph, this might require multiple traits at once depending on how many groups we want to split up the pokemon into.

**Timeline** -  We plan to take week 1 of 4 to look at our dataset and see what we think is the best way to organize the data and plan out how we will store the data and access it, as well as which classes will need to be made to help keep the code clean and get started on storing the data. Week 2 will have us working on the BFS traversal to work with the stored dataset and start to look at and work on the Iterative depth-first search. Week 3 will have us finish off the Iterative depth-first search and then build and test the Force-directed graph drawing algorithm, and start on debugging. Week 4 will have us finishing off any code that is undone and debugging, testing for a number of edge cases, and making the graph data look clean. We will also plan out and finish the written report of our weekly notes and the final presentation video.
