CS 225 Final Project Contract (rohanjp2, kdadi2, amart317)

Communication

Team Meetings - All of our team members will meet at Rohan and Alam’s apartment from 4 - 7 pm every Friday. Everyone will have different roles and responsibilities that rotate weekly. One person will be the team leader who leads the meeting and makes sure that everyone is on track. Rohan will be the first team leader. Another role will be the recorder who takes notes and writes the Development Log for the week. Kaushal will be the recorder for the first week. The final role will be the programmer. They will implement any changes that we decide to make during the meeting. Alam will be the programmer for the first week.
Assistance - We will create an iMessage group chat that will be our main for communication. In case that does not work, each member can also be contacted through their U of I email. Everyone will respond to any messages within 24 hours unless there is an emergency. 
Respect - The Team Leader will run meetings every week and make sure that every member has the chance to make their points and contributions to the code. Each member will have their own designated time to speak without any interruptions. After everyone is able to speak, there will be a chance for everyone to discuss each other’s points and decide which one makes the most sense. If there is any disagreement about a certain topic, there will be a vote. Since there is an odd number of group members, there will always be a majority.

Collaboration

Work Distribution Each week, we will split up the weekly goal of methods and functions that needs to be implemented and working into 40/40/20, where the weekly note taker will only do 20% of the code needed to get done and mainly focus on taking notes or double checking our code comments. Meanwhile the other two members will do 40% of the weekly work, making sure the methods work and there are no bugs, or memory leaks, as well as thinking of edge cases if they apply. If one member happens to be extra busy with other assignments we can adjust the ratio accordingly.
Time Commitment We plan to make every member work about 2 to 6 hours a week on the  project, making sure to report their hours work and what they did. This allows us to make sure no one is working too much or too little per week. On top of this we will spent about 3 hours as a team once a week. Members can notify the team ahead of time if they feel that their week will be too busy so the team knows they may put in less time then the rest of the team. If we find members working too little we shall ask them for reasons, if no good reason is given we will take action either as a team or by alerting a staff member. If we find the work for a certain member was much more work then it was thought to be, then we can split the remaining load of that member’s workload among the rest of the team.
Conflict Resolution If conflict appears in the team we will have a brief meeting with the whole team as soon as possible and discuss what the conflict is and how it could be resolved such as making sure certain members put in their work or maybe extra work. If we feel the manner is a serious issue then we will make sure to contact the course staff as soon as possible.

